CURATOR — full reference
=========================

Curator is a self-hosted, site-agnostic front-end for gallery-dl: paste in
creator/gallery URLs, it downloads them locally via the real gallery-dl CLI,
indexes everything into a local SQLite database, and serves a browser UI for
managing sources and browsing/slideshowing the results. Everything runs on
your machine; nothing is uploaded anywhere.

This is the long version. `curator --help` covers just the command line flags.
Output below is long — pipe it through a pager if you like:
    curator --docs | more        (Windows)
    curator --docs | less        (Linux/macOS)


RUNNING IT
----------
    curator.exe
Curator opens its own app window automatically (a borderless Edge/Chrome
window, no tabs/toolbar — not a full browser). Leave the terminal running
behind it. No Python or pip required — curator.exe is a single
self-contained binary.

    curator.exe --no-window
Skips the auto-opened window and just runs the server — use this for
headless/server setups, or if you'd rather open http://127.0.0.1:8642
yourself in a regular browser tab.


WHERE YOUR DATA LIVES
----------------------
The binary and static/ live wherever you put curator.exe. Data (downloads,
database, settings, log) defaults to ~/Curator.

To move it permanently, edit config.json next to curator.exe:
    { "data_dir": "E:/CuratorData" }
config.json is created automatically on first run if it doesn't exist yet.

For a one-off override, the CURATOR_DATA_DIR environment variable takes
priority over config.json for that session only.

gallery-dl binary: Curator calls `gallery-dl` from your PATH by default.
Override with `"gallery_dl_bin": "C:/path/to/gallery-dl.exe"` in config.json.


FIRST-RUN SETUP (OOBE)
------------------------
The very first time Curator runs — no settings.json and an empty database —
it opens a short local setup wizard at http://127.0.0.1:8642 instead of the
normal UI:
  1. Welcome
  2. Dependency check (gallery-dl required; ffmpeg/ffprobe optional)
  3. Data directory (confirm the default, or pick another; existing files
     are never moved)
  4. gallery-dl configuration (a "test" button, nothing else — gallery-dl
     keeps its own config/cookies separately and Curator never asks for a
     password or cookies here)
  5. Download defaults (concurrent download count)
  6. Optional NSFW auto-rating
  7. Appearance (theme, slideshow defaults)
  8. Summary, then Finish

"Advanced / Skip Setup" on the welcome screen jumps straight to the
summary/Finish step without changing anything.

Once you finish (or skip), Curator marks setup complete in settings.json
and always opens the normal UI after that — the wizard does not reappear on
its own. Re-open it any time from Settings -> "Run Setup Again"; that only
lets you review/change things and never touches your downloads, database,
or other settings.

Upgrading an existing installation never triggers this: Curator recognizes
an existing settings.json or a database that already has sources/media in
it and skips straight to the normal UI, even if that installation predates
this wizard entirely.

Changing the data directory or a gallery-dl/ffprobe executable path through
the wizard writes to config.json, same as editing it by hand would — it
takes effect the next time Curator starts, same as it always has.


REMOTE ACCESS (PHONE, IPAD, ANOTHER COMPUTER)
-----------------------------------------------
Curator listens on every network interface, so any device that can reach
your PC can open the same UI — no separate app needed.

Same Wi-Fi as your PC:
    Open http://<your-pc's-LAN-IP>:8642 in a browser. Find the IP with
    `ipconfig` in PowerShell ("IPv4 Address" under your active adapter).

From anywhere (cellular, traveling):
    Don't port-forward your router — Curator has no login, and that would
    put an unauthenticated server on the open internet. Use Tailscale
    (tailscale.com, free for personal use) instead:
      1. Install Tailscale on the PC and sign in.
      2. Install the Tailscale app on your phone, same account.
      3. Run `tailscale ip -4` on the PC for its Tailscale IP (100.x.x.x).
      4. With Tailscale on, open http://100.x.x.x:8642 on your phone.
      5. iOS Safari: Share -> Add to Home Screen for an app-like icon.

Windows Firewall: the first connection from another device may trigger a
firewall popup — click Allow. To add the rule manually:
    New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Curator" -Direction Inbound -Protocol TCP -LocalPort 8642 -Action Allow


SPEEDING UP DOWNLOADS
-----------------------
Downloading is limited by network requests per source, not CPU/GPU — more
concurrent sources helps more than a faster processor. Settings -> "max
concurrent downloads" (default 6, up to 20). Push it up if your connection
can take it; bring it down if sources start landing on "error" (usually a
site rate-limiting too many parallel connections from your IP).


WHY BROWSING FEELS FAST (THUMBNAILS & CACHING)
-------------------------------------------------
Grid tiles and sidebar previews use small cached JPEG thumbnails (360px long
edge), not the multi-MB originals — the lightbox and slideshow still load the
real file. Videos only fetch metadata once they're about to scroll into view.
Everything is served with long-lived cache headers since files never change
once downloaded. Deleting the thumbnails/ folder is always safe; it's a cache
and rebuilds as needed.


ADDING SOURCES
---------------
"+ add multiple at once" (or the quick-add box), one URL per line or comma
separated. https:// is optional. Paste the actual profile/gallery URL —
Curator doesn't guess one from a bare username, since gallery-dl matches on
per-site URL patterns. Each source downloads in the background; watch its
status dot go pending -> downloading -> done.


GROUPS
-------
"+ group" in the sidebar creates one. Move a source into a group via its
menu's "group" dropdown. Click a group to browse everything inside it,
shuffled together. Double-click to rename; the x deletes a group without
deleting its sources (they fall back to "Ungrouped").

Subgroups: every group has its own + button for nesting (e.g. a "Platforms"
group containing "Patreon" and "Twitter"). Browsing a group includes its
subgroups' content too. Deleting a group with subgroups promotes them up one
level rather than deleting or flattening them.

Groups and tags are interchangeable: a group's own name, and any tags
you've explicitly added to it, apply live to every file nested inside it
(including through subgroups) — filtering by tag "nsfw" matches a file
that's explicitly tagged "nsfw" AND a file that just lives in a group named
(or tagged) "nsfw". Nothing is copied or written per-file; move a source to
a different group and its effective tags update immediately. These
inherited tags show up as dashed, read-only chips in the lightbox — remove
them by editing the group (or moving the file out of it), not the file.


RATINGS & TAGS
---------------
Click a star in the lightbox to rate a file 1-5; click the current rating
again to clear it. Add tags via the lightbox's tag box (Enter or "+ tag");
remove one by clicking its x. Both are filterable/sortable from the
toolbar, and both apply to groups too (see above) — tag a group from its
sidebar tag button (🏷).


NSFW AUTO-RATING (OPTIONAL)
------------------------------
Curator can run newly-downloaded photos through a local NSFW classifier and
set their star rating automatically for anything not already rated by
hand — 1★ clothed/safe up to 5★ extremely explicit, five even bands across
the classifier's 0-1 score. It also works backward through your existing
library in the background. A rating you (or a previous auto-rating pass)
already set is never overwritten. This reuses the same rating system as
manual ratings above — there's no separate "NSFW score" anywhere — so once
it's run, the "all ratings" dropdown in the toolbar doubles as a content
filter: "hide 3★+ (explicit)" hides anything auto-rated (or manually rated)
explicit or worse, while leaving not-yet-rated files visible so your library
doesn't appear to empty out while a big backlog is still being scored.

This is entirely optional and off by default. To use it:

  1. Install Python 3 if you don't already have it.
  2. pip install opennsfw-onnx
  3. Turn on "enable NSFW auto-rating" in Settings, then restart Curator —
     enabling/disabling this needs a restart, since it decides whether the
     classifier process gets started at all.

Curator writes its own copy of the worker script (nsfw_worker.py) into your
data directory on every startup, so there's nothing else to install or copy
by hand. If the Python dependencies aren't installed, or Python itself
isn't on your PATH, this fails quietly — curator.log will show a warning,
but nothing else in Curator depends on this or is affected by it.

Video files aren't scored (photos only, for now).


CLIPS VS VIDEOS
-----------------
The toolbar's type filter splits video into two categories by length:
"clips" (up to 90 seconds) and "videos" (over 90 seconds) — handy for
keeping short-form content separate from longer downloads. This needs
ffprobe (part of ffmpeg — see Requirements) to read each video's duration;
without it, videos still show up fine everywhere, they just won't sort
into either "clips" or "videos" specifically (only "all" and "photos" are
unaffected). Existing videos get their duration filled in automatically in
the background after an update; new downloads get it immediately as
they're indexed.

The feed and portrait wall always skip anything over 90 seconds
regardless of the toolbar filter — those views are built for quick,
short-form browsing, and a long video breaks that up. This check happens
live as each video loads, so it works even before ffprobe has backfilled
that file's duration for the toolbar filter above.


EXPORT / IMPORT
-----------------
"export list" in the sidebar footer downloads a JSON backup of every
source's name, URL, group, and selection state (not the actual files).
"import list" reads one of those back in (or any JSON shaped like
{"sources":[{"url": "..."}]}), recreating groups it references; duplicates
are skipped automatically.

A dismissible reminder banner appears in the sidebar once it's been a
while (30 days by default, "backup reminder" in Settings) since the last
export, or if you've never exported at all.


LIVE BROWSE (PREVIEW WITHOUT DOWNLOADING)
--------------------------------------------
"live browse" in the toolbar opens a mode that streams directly from
gallery-dl's listing output (`gallery-dl -j`) instead of downloading
anything — nothing here touches your library or database. Paste a URL to
browse it immediately; anything you like there can be added to the real
library with one click. Useful for previewing before committing disk space.


COCK HERO SESSION (TIER 3)
-----------------------------
Open /ch/ in your browser for the Cock Hero session UI. Configure tag/source
filters, a pacing profile, and session duration. Cock hero fetches a filtered
playlist from curator's /api/ch/playlist endpoint and drives the display —
advancing media, playing video clips, layering a HUD with pace cues and
elapsed time. Beat sync uses the Web Audio API, entirely client-side.

To enable session logging, set "ch_log_sessions": true in Settings.


LOGS & FINDING ERRORS
------------------------
Everything goes to curator.log in your data directory (rotates past 5MB).
Click "view log" in the sidebar footer to open it as plain text.


NOTES & KNOWN LIMITATIONS
-----------------------------
- Single-user, local tool: no accounts, no API auth.
- Don't expose port 8642 to the open internet — use Tailscale for remote access.
- Large libraries paginate the grid in batches of 150 while scrolling.
- gallery-dl must be on your PATH (or configured in config.json as gallery_dl_bin).


TROUBLESHOOTING
------------------
- Check curator.log first — most issues show up there with enough detail to diagnose.
- "gallery-dl could not be launched" -> ensure gallery-dl is installed and on your PATH.
- A source stuck on "error" -> hover its row for the last bit of gallery-dl's output.
- Port already in use -> another curator.exe is running, or change the port in source.
- NSFW auto-rating stuck off / nothing getting rated -> check curator.log for
  "nsfw worker" warnings; usually means Python isn't on PATH or
  opennsfw-onnx isn't installed for that Python. Run
  tools/diagnose_nsfw.py (python tools/diagnose_nsfw.py) for a full
  diagnosis -- it specifically checks whether pip install put the package
  into a different Python than the one Curator actually launches, which is
  the single most common cause of "installed it and it still says missing
  dependency." Pass --fix to have it install the right packages for you.
- Videos never sorting into "clips"/"videos" -> ffprobe isn't on PATH (it
  ships with ffmpeg — see Requirements); curator.log logs this once at
  startup rather than per-video.
- First-run setup wizard keeps reappearing -> it only reappears if
  settings.json's "oobe_completed" is false; check you're not running with
  CURATOR_DATA_DIR pointed somewhere new each time (each data directory
  gets its own settings.json and its own first-run state).
- Want to redo first-run setup on purpose -> Settings -> "Run Setup Again"
  (doesn't touch downloads/database/other settings).

A NOTE ON USE
---------------
Curator downloads whatever you point it at. Only add creators/galleries you
have the right to access, and be mindful of each site's terms of service
and rate limits.
